# CS360_Mobile_Architecture_Programming

This app is designed to create a database to hold inventory items on an Android phone. It accomplishes this by using a SQL lite database to hold both the items and user logins. The data is saved locally on the device and allows the user to have the option of receiving SMS texts when an item reaches a quantity of zero. 
There are two main screens used for this application, a login screen, which allows a user to login or register, as well as an inventory screen which holds a recycler view holding the inventory list. With the goal of being a user-centric application, the app uses a floating action button to add new inventory items, and each row of the recycler view can increment, decrement, or delete the rows item. To implement these items, full CRUD operations had to be written for the database. The app keeps a consistent analogous color theme using indigo and blue to contrast against a white background. 
The app uses an MVC (model, view, controller) design theme to enforce a separation of concerns. The view is updated and displays the information to the user in a clean and precise way. The controller handles requests and updates the view using the model. By using this design pattern, the app’s source code is much more concise, clean, and easy to expand. 
The code was tested by dividing the view, model, and controller and testing each singularly. This allows the component to be tested with ease since other components are removed from the picture. First, the view was tested to prove that it would be displayed as intended. Secondly the controller was tested using dummy data of a known state. This ensured that if good data was used, the view would work as intended. Finally, the model was tied in and tested to prove that it would supply the correct data when needed. Once each component was satisfactory, the application as a whole was tested with components working together.
One aspect of the project that I had to innovate was with the recycler view adapter and the three on click listeners that were needed for the increment, decrement, and delete buttons. Since this listener was needed in the main activity, I needed to tie functions from the activity to the adapter class for the recycler view. I achieved this by creating an interface that the main activity implemented. The adapter held this interface object as a property and called its functions when necessary.
A specific component that details my knowledge in this project was using the executor service to run database operations asynchronously. Not only were tasks running asynchronously, but several tasks returned information, such as the database read methods. In each case, Java’s executor service was used to create a runnable or callable. This allowed the database operations to run in the background without slowing down the reactivity of the UI thread.
